# DA-Capstone-2-Predicting-Loan-Defaulters
DESCRIPTION  Financial institutions incur significant losses due to the default of vehicle loans. This has led to the tightening up of vehicle loan underwriting and increased the vehicle loan rejection rates. The need for a better credit risk scoring model among these institutions also gets created. This warrants a study to estimate the determinants of vehicle loan default.  There is one dataset data that has 41 attributes.  You are required to determine and examine factors that affect the ratio of vehicle loan defaulters. Also, use the findings to create a model to predict the potential defaulters.  Steps to perform:  Importing, Understanding, and Inspecting Data :  Perform preliminary data inspection and report the findings as the structure of the data, missing values, duplicates, etc.  Variable names in the data may not be in accordance with the identifier naming in Python so, change the variable names accordingly  The presented data might also contain some missing values therefore, exploration will also lead to devising strategies to fill in the missing values while exploring the data  Performing EDA and Modeling:  Provide the statistical description of the quantitative data variables  Explain how is the target variable distributed overall  Study the distribution of the target variable across various categories like branch, city, state, branch, supplier, manufacturer, etc.  What are the different employment types given in the data? Can a strategy be developed to fill in the missing values (if any)? Use pie charts to express the different types of employment that define the defaulters and non-defaulters.  Has age got anything to do with defaulting? What is the distribution of age w.r.t. to the defaulters and non-defaulters?  What type of ID was presented by most of the customers for proof?  Study the credit bureau score distribution. Compare the distribution for defaulters vs. non-defaulters. Explore in detail.  Explore the primary and secondary account details. Is the information in some way related to the loan default probability?  Is there a difference between the sanctioned and disbursed amount of primary and secondary loans? Study the difference by providing appropriate statistics and graphs.  Do customer who make higher number of enquiries end up being higher risk candidates?  Is credit history, that is new loans in last six months, loans defaulted in last six months, time since first loan, etc., a significant factor in estimating probability of loan defaulters?  Perform logistic regression modeling, predict the outcome for the test data, and validate the results using the confusion matrix.  Dashboarding:  Visualize the data using Tableau to help user explore data to have a better understanding  Demonstrate the variables associated with each other and factors to build a dashboard  You can download the Data Dictionary from here -https://www.dropbox.com/sh/fn49c6drebj4qqr/AAB03Pu1y6DuaLKBe-qv5bZPa?dl=0
